
<p align="center">

<img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/pD4mUFQR0ovmg/giphy.gif" alt="galaxy_gif">

</p>

<!-- badges: start -->

[![Travis build
status](https://travis-ci.org/decktools/votesmart.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/decktools/votesmart)
[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/votesmart)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=votesmart)
<!-- badges: end -->

# votesmart <img src="./img/deck_logo.png" alt="deck" height="35px" align="right" />

<!-- # votesmart -->

This package is a wrapper around the
[VoteSmart](https://justfacts.votesmart.org/)
[API](http://api.votesmart.org/docs/) provided by your friendly
neighborhood progressive tech organization, ðŸŒŸ [*Deck
Technologies*](https://www.deck.tools/) ðŸŒŸ. Feel free to use this package
in any way you like.

VoteSmart provides information on US political candidatesâ€™ positions on
issues, votes on bills, and ratings by third party organizations, among
other data.

### Installation

``` r
devtools::install_github("decktools/votesmart")
```

### API Keys

Youâ€™ll need a VoteSmart API key in order to use this package. You can
register for one [here](https://votesmart.org/share/api#.XjxqEjJKjOQ).

Store your key in an environment variable named `VOTESMART_API_KEY` with

    Sys.setenv(VOTESMART_API_KEY = "<your_key>")

You can check that itâ€™s there with

    Sys.getenv("VOTESMART_API_KEY")

This key is never stored in your R sessionâ€™s global environment.

### Available Functions

*These functions are named after the `snake_case`d version of the API
[endpoints](http://api.votesmart.org/docs/).*

**If you see an endpoint you want to be made available in this package
that isnâ€™t yet, feel free to submit an
[issue](https://github.com/decktools/votesmart/issues) or a [pull
request](https://github.com/decktools/votesmart/pulls)\!**

For examples of how these all fit together, check out the vignette with:

    vignette("votesmart")

#### Summary of Functions

**`candidates_get_by_last_name`**

Get a dataframe of candidates given a vector of `last_name`s,
`election_year`s (optional), and `stage_id`s (optional)

**`candidates_get_by_levenshtein`**

Get a dataframe of fuzzy-matched candidates given a vector of
`last_name`s, `election_year`s (optional), and `stage_id`s (optional)

**`candidates_get_by_office_state`**

Get a dataframe of candidates by the state in which they ran for office
given a vector of `state_id`s (optional), `office_id`s, and
`election_year`s (optional)

**`election_get_election_by_year_state`**

Get a dataframe of election ids and their attributes given a vector of
`year`s and `state_id`s (optional).

**`office_get_levels`**

Get the VoteSmart `office_level_id`s and their associated names
(federal, state, local)

**`office_get_offices_by_level`**

Get `office_id`s and their associated names (e.g. `"President"`) for a
given `office_level_id`

**`rating_get_candidate_rating`**

Get SIG (Special Interest Group) ratings for candidates given a
`candidate_id` and a `sig_id` (optional)

**`rating_get_categories`**

Get rating `category_id`s and their associated `name`s (e.g.
`"Abortion"`, `"Environment"`) given a vector of `state_id`s (optional)

**`rating_get_sig`**

Get information about a vector of SIGs (Special Interest Groups) given a
`sig_id`

**`rating_get_sig_list`**

Get a dataframe of SIG (Special Interest Group) given a rating
`category_id` and a `state_id` (optional)

**`votes_get_by_official`**

Get a dataframe of the way officials have voted on bills given a
`candidate_id`, an `office_id` (optional), a `category_id` (optional)
and a `year` the vote occurred (optional)

#### Package Data

Only a subset of all of the VoteSmart endpoints have yet been made
available through this package.

You can see a full dataframe of the VoteSmart endpoints and their
associated arguments with

    data("endpoint_input_mapping")

or

    data("endpoint_input_mapping_nested")

### Other Details

  - This package currently contains no rate limiting infrastructure as
    there is very little information about what rate limits VoteSmart
    imposes, if any

  - The VoteSmart API does not allow for bulk requests, i.e.Â a single
    request can only contain one value for each parameter
    
      - The funcitons in this package allow multiple inputs to be
        specified for each argument, but requests are sent one at a time
        for each combination of inputs

<br>

Feel free to reach out in the
[Issues](https://github.com/decktools/votesmart/issues) with any bugs or
feature requests\! ðŸ’«
